you
hey folks Quilly team here and welcome
to another episode of railway Empire
although this one is gonna rhyme a
little with the last one because we're
gonna retry the Texas gold scenario now
one of the things I kind of didn't cry
about when we ended that one a little
prematurely is because I knew the next
time I'd get a chance to record railway
empire would be after the game would
actually be released I am finally on the
actual release edition of railway Empire
and I'm very excited to be able to take
a look at that as opposed to being on
the press preview version over here so
this is the same one that everyone
should have access to now and yeah I'm
really pumped for it will remind you
because I get a questions about this all
the time there was a free mode over here
I mean first of all there's a sandbox
mode where you can just like build
without you know worry about money I
think but there's also this free mode
over here we can choose any particular
map choose any starting time you can
keep track if you've like completed the
the map some of these various starting
times and it'll sort of randomly
generate some some sort of task for you
but I'm gonna back into the the scan
area over here and we're gonna load up
black gold again and I was very happy to
see in the comments a lot of people
being like yeah I was like I failed this
scenario like four times it's pretty
tricky so I'm pretty pumped about that
I'm wondering if I should go for the
sake of being able to like chitchat a
little bit more just go over to the
manual pause mode I still think I might
want to give the general another try I
think you know it's a little unfortunate
that we didn't really get the show off
you know his stuff I think the track
contracted why shouldn't it the games we
horribly appeal to me you know doing bad
things to people
free prices are really good straight up
make a little bit more money more tech
more better but I I'm addicted to the
engineer so we'll hold off over there
the auction discounts are actually quite
nice the general a chance again so
Jonathan Johnson the steel Empire again
we can rename these but let's go ahead
and leave that in so I'm gonna focus a
little bit more comprehensively right
from the start apparently to grow to to
grow our capital city Kansas City over
there because
spacebar prom is because apparently that
is merely a challenge to open up the oil
fields in Texas what's different what
correct me if I'm wrong but when we
played before and again that was in the
pre-release version was it not a goal of
50,000 by the end of 91 now that's a
goal of 60,000 by the end of 92 so you
do need more people but you've got more
time to set that up and that's a big
difference because we actually do start
halfway through 90 so instead of like
six months to get like the basic set up
we now have a year and a half to get a
little bit more work done but honestly I
strongly suspect that if your city is
growing especially from this starting
size if your city is in the situation
where it's growing to 50,000 it'll
probably keep growing to 60,000 in there
so I think that's lovely some of the
other things may have changed as well
but obviously that's the one that bopped
us last time so I'm looking forward to
fixing that the other thing I want to
address is um in a lot of these games
like this it having sort of dedicated
platforms for just a couple of things
does tend to work out fairly well it's
not like it's got like all the most like
complex switching options that you would
have in a real world so I think it's
fine to still have say platform one just
before the the grain and say the coal
over here platform to being for that it
added out I will be going and making one
platform that's dedicated for sort of a
double track set up so probably I think
people were saying this is that the the
natives of this area the people who live
here call this Salina it's a little
closer than that instead of Celina's
more of a Celina over here look now that
I'm saying it feels like I'm saying
saliva but there we go okay excellent
so yeah let's go ahead and get this
started so growing Kansas City again
will still be a fairly high priority
we're gonna pay a lot of attention to it
although apparently we've got a bit more
of a window here this time which is good
one of the things that I think would
have made a big difference last time is
getting wood to Kansas City and it is
still unfortunate that the wood is
fairly far away oh are things in a
different position this time
wit okay I mean maybe it's randomized as
well but wasn't there a place where we
could get logs oh there it is right over
there no no that's the same okay so get
me the logs Kansas City might be a
slayer a slightly higher priority I
don't know so what I'll do is I will be
doing a double track sort of over here
with with each direction set up and we
will sort of split off of that maybe for
these cities and just as a way to get
some of the goods from a little further
away let's see what we can do but
short-term you still have a demand for
corn as well that's good now that's
probably because you've got the brewery
now one of the things that people had
suggested was that perhaps the coal
wasn't being delivered here because the
chemical plant sort of filled up right
the coal to chemicals operation it might
have just filled up and had a backlog of
chemicals so it sort of killed off the
man so we're kind of have to look to
make sure we've got a dump for for
chemicals so we can keep the other
things going but anyway all right so
yeah I will use the top most track over
here for for a few basic goods so let's
go and get a station oh that was the
other thing some people are a little
confused about four cities you do have
to have the station within the city
itself but for for resource producers
you can't have the station right on the
resource producer just got to reach in
some way it's a little awkward with the
way the track is set up over here like I
might want to give a little rotation but
we still have a grain producer kind of
over there that we might want to get
this Salina so I'm still wondering about
having a dedicated grain producer just
for Kansas City over here so that might
affect our placement I can go on the the
crop circles crop circles the crop
fields over here and that's perfectly
fine so let's do that well we'll worry
about hooking up the Kansas first but
we'll do something kind of like that
let's go ahead and get a track that
connects from here to this top most
track over here so this isn't gonna be
part of the double track kind of setup
over here it's gonna be dedicated on its
own but the same platform will be
serviced from the other side with
something and probably more than one
thing actually because for example
the coldest sugar and the corn over here
it's not gonna be that much traffic for
it so I think they can all probably
share platform one as these sort of
little spur tracks and that would be
perfectly okay let's get the actual
stations set up here
I don't remember do you actually have a
demand for sugar already you actually
which is a little surprising to me yes
you don't need an industry people just
want to I know bake I guess that's fair
they can they're allowed to do that
I don't suppose ah so close
yeah the large one that's quite a bit
more expensive but we could have one
stop that does both which could be
serviced by two trains or just one and
it's just gonna grab whatever had
slightly higher demand I don't I think
we can probably just have two separate
stations here and end up with relatively
similar costs overall and that'll be
okay all right
that's right continue - there you go
plan something kind of like that
purchase you plan something like this
where you are indeed merging together
purchasing you and there will be a track
that goes off for the coal over here I'm
not prioritizing setting up the station
for it yet but I will go ahead and do
the little split over here just so that
I remember that it needs to exist so
we're gonna get some signals right over
here and they don't have to be a
directional signal that the signal does
have a direction because that's how it
stops the trains from entering so we
want that shift click
Oh No
[Music]
Oh mouse wheel I'm like I'm just missing
middle mouse button e but yeah yeah okay
it's the it's the shift mouse wheel that
alternates it thank you very much
do that um this black and white sort of
stripe effect going on I wonder what it
look like when we get maybe actual
directional tracks as I'm wonder if
there's gonna be a different look to
these blocks you can actually see which
blocks are blocks here well that's quite
spiffy so we need to make sure that only
one train at a time gets in this little
section over here which we've got we
shouldn't mean any section or signals at
the station itself I don't believe
although we probably will want some sort
of supply Tower set up and if we do this
when we go and get the second third and
fourth track coming out of here the
supplied Tower will automatically expand
we'll do the same thing on the other
side before that in Kansas City itself
we are going to want one maintenance
building thank you very much and let's
build some trains before we run out of
money completely so new train we're
gonna go call an estate to Kansas City
and it can be automated I mean we might
want to wait for full loads but it's
gonna be okay we've got the NYC American
here 30 grand nice and cheap very flat
tracks so we're good there
and you're good to go suppose I can
unpause at this point and then I could
save money by having one train that goes
Robert preserved to Kansas City then
Clark farm to Kansas City and I'm
actually tempt I think I'm gonna start
with that we might want to have it go
and be specialized later on have two
separate trains but I think this is
gonna be a-okay
so we've got you add locomotives the NYC
Americans gonna be fine and close and go
so useful right over here and you're
loading up with your corn excellent okay
so hopefully we can at least stop Kansas
City from shrinking at first because
that's one of the problems we ran into
last time we actually were shrinking
Kansas City for the first lil part so I
don't have the Lopez pit yet one of the
things when the city does grow to 40,000
is we might want to go and rush and be
the person that sets up the industry I
don't know how much money we need for
that keep in mind our competitors do
start with a bunch of cities already
connected and
little bit more money in their bank
account so they're gonna have a bit of
an edge that but maybe we'll take out
some bonds actually to go feel like the
little glowing effect of the trains when
your mouse tout or you as well see this
one so happy to be playing on the
release version now instead of the
preview version so there's gonna be a
little bit of waiting here keep in mind
the supply towers you have little
signals come in so this guy is gonna
wait until that one unloads but I don't
think that's gonna really like kill us
it's just Freight it's gonna be okay
most of the time the trains are gonna be
waiting for a full load anyway like
right now they they all have full loads
because there was a bit of a backlog at
the various producers but I think this
is gonna be totally ok and we can go and
increase our capacity later on if that's
problem alright so next thing I would
like to do and we don't have quite
enough money we can take up bonds I
would like to go and set up the two-way
track that comes right through here and
then collects up connects up Salina
don't think the A's I'm saying that a is
wrong it is like a more of a line in the
bit here but anyway and Wichita so just
to get some passenger traffic going on
there I think I'll probably keep trading
Kansas City as the hub rather than
collect they connect these two cities
directly but see maybe you know as they
grow we might consider do something
different over there so we will probably
need to borrow some money being loaded
being loaded again that's the first one
we see 12 yeah dedicated trains will be
good and we might need to use a few more
tracks over here but for now we can save
money and have very very profitable
little loads and I think that's gonna be
okay alright
yeah let's start with the smallest
station in these places I think that's
gonna be okay
positions we're just looking to set up
passenger traffic so we're gonna get one
there and there oh yes that's right
because it won't let us we can only have
one disconnected station at a time for
gameplay balance things so I guess
that's okay and yeah I'm gonna use I'm
gonna use this track here for now I'm
gonna make sure to double track through
the supply tower so that it'll use the
existing supply tower which will be
lovely and then you're going to come out
to kind of over here excellent and then
just after the supply tower this is
going to split like this and we're gonna
have the double track with set
directions for each one and I don't have
enough money okay so big question is do
I just let the game run or do we take
out some bonds I think I will take out a
bond I will take out this is fairly
small but it's really low interest which
I like about it maybe what we'll do is
we'll let the game run for a bit I'll
put it on fast-forward we'll get a few
more Goods deliveries over here there's
a surprising amount of waiting
am i under estimating how much is being
produced well you're always waiting with
a full load over here hmm you're already
back here but you can see a lot of time
Kansas City is actually sitting empty
so yeah it's sort of a coincidence that
they are meeting up at the same time and
waiting and I think a little bit of
waiting is gonna be okay but I don't
know this might be a mistake I'm trying
to save money because we don't have
infinite stuff but you're both refilling
at the same time so that's slightly
awkward too and there are gonna be three
people over here these three probably do
deserve their own so little stop but oh
let's stop stressing about it for now
it's fine so the professionals will get
the bandits and the headhunters we're
not going to do that Kansas City has
just grown giving us an extra slot
where's the so we can't build we can't
build the coal industry how come
maybe it does need maybe need to do in a
higher and city before we can do that we
will try to make a bid over here because
it is nice to get the free tech we might
not work too hard
at it because we do need to actually
save money for our routes over here I'm
gonna go ahead and pave this so there's
our twin route let's go and get a little
bit of signal set up where the big boys
it's nice so signal wise we're gonna do
right-hand-drive
like that oh my god it's animating the
direction of the tracks oh man that is
so nice little quality-of-life thing
yeah I'm so happy I waited for the the
press bill to be done so one of the
things we'll be doing is we'll adding
some extra signals on here now I don't
need to like force the direction anymore
I don't think because I've sort of
already got it in there but I suppose it
doesn't hurt and just in case we get
some Mike you know other tracks coming
in here reinforcing the the signal
direction might not be a terrible idea
and if nothing else it'll remind me of
what direction things go in now I want
lots of these signals so that the these
track segments are subdivided into
little bits so we can have multiple
trains using like one direction at a
time because as long as their individual
block is empty they can go so we can
have a bunch of trains moving here as
long as they'll be insoluble ox also if
they're waiting and they will be waiting
on a single platform over here for now
they can sort of line up over here and
wait for queue and end up empty again we
might need to add a bunch more platforms
to Kansas City later on but for now
we're okay and it's a negative money
over here through this we do have some
tech research available right we did do
the auction so we've got this so fruits
and veg might be okay increased
reliability 20% oh I think they
rebalance a lot of these numbers as well
yeah let's go ahead and get some more
reliability so that we don't break down
quite as often that'll be nice we do
have some money come in excellent
wonderful and uh yeah and we can still
take out some big loans here so the
little intersections of saline it you
know what I will take out a loan right
now
if I can find the right page thank you
and we'll go and take you out this
should be just enough to finish our
little line over here let's bring the
game speed back down to more of a normal
earth thing so one of the questions will
be how is this line going to interact
with this double line how do I want to
actually work it out because I can do
this so this is fine for traffic that's
heading west that wants to go up to
Salina I don't know if there's an ideal
place in terms of where that signal is
that I'm going to want to do things I'll
put it as close as possible to the
signal that may or may not be correct
but then we also want the ability to go
east mostly from Salina over here so we
kind of need to I guess we're going to
need to bridge so shift and scroll wheel
I don't know if that's gonna be enough
but we can always like change our mind
over here okay let me cancel that track
there we go
so now if I well there we go
inclinations to Steve oh I probably have
to start this further away okay
let's just clear that planning from over
there that's gonna be fine so maybe I'll
start from here I might be a little bit
better so you're going to pop off
certainly and then the idea here I mean
we could tunnel but yeah we're gonna try
to bridge over excellent and then
connect up over there so obviously it's
gonna be an incline by virtue of the
fact that people are gonna have to use
the bridge to do this but that gives me
the ability to travel from Kansas City
to Salina because we'll be using this
top route taking a right and going that
way or from Salina we can come down to
Kansas City by taking the bottom branch
over here and going that way over there
it's slightly cheaper way to construct
this but I think this is gonna be okay
and these tracks here should be alright
as well hopefully everything is gonna be
alright
so fairly pricey doesn't actually leave
us enough for a locomotive but I think
we're gonna be fine in a scooch I think
what we're gonna do is we're gonna add
in some more signals here boom like that
just to make sure that that's okay and
[Music]
we actually might have wanted to well
there's just gonna be one train
servicing this now when we get to the
point where there might be more than one
train doing this align over to Kansas
City route what we might want to do is
double track this all the way up to the
platform but for now we're gonna be okay
and we'll save ourselves a few bucks so
we got some money coming in as some
deliveries are happening yeah I think
I'm okay with this let's just get up to
30,000 thank you very much and we're so
new rail line say from here to there I
see a cloth industry got set up you're
good
ad locomotive the NYC and thank you very
much and we've got another innovation
available what
one's this one five percent more power
for locomotives let's do it and just out
of curiosity where's the Train
oh geez it's already going now you say
I'm on the fast forward speed slow down
there buddy
what you got just one passenger one male
I think that'll go up in time
over there you gotta come over in it
there we've got the maintenance bay over
here as well zooming in and sing off a
little
great stuff over there and you're not
bringing anyone back
oh no there we go okay that's kind of
funny that I haven't missed one for a
second
all right I thought it was leaving
Kansas City Amphion like Oh what the
heck have I done but now we're gonna be
okay so you got that so we'll end up
with a similar structure for Wichita and
that should make us a fair about a bit
of profit it might grow Salina and
Wichita a little bit depending on if
it's able to pick up any excess goods
over here like if there's any excess
grain or corn or anything like that to
do that'll be okay and if they grow then
we're gonna have massacres Indians crazy
crazy humans stop being such jerks
seriously there's something wrong with
you humans interest you for bonds oh I
don't remember actually seeing that pop
up before so all right it's private
ownership but someone did set up the
cotton to cloth production but we don't
have any cotton nearby do we mmm now you
don't have a meat industry Wichita does
start with the ones so again we're gonna
want to get the cattle to going to
Wichita and then when we get the Wichita
to Kansas City Line going that
population should rise as well and take
a look at our task what do we have
45,000 in Kansas and still growing as
far as I know which is nice what is this
connection bonus Oh
hold on a sec if we connect up this coal
mine we're gonna get a bonus of 91
thousand well let's just do that right
away then and this might be a little
tricky to get that lined up here I'm
leaving a little extra space so that
we've got a little bit more room to to
maneuver with that over there but loops
but that I don't know if they actually
need a train going or if we get the
reward immediately well I guess we got
the bonus right away that's well worth
it I don't think it's worth delivering
the cold or this Kansas City have a coal
demand even without an industry no
where's the coal it's way down here so
no mand at all and it's not gonna happen
automatically from number of citizens
either you do demand vegetables now
because you
groan I'm not sure what we're gonna do
about that my friends I think you're
gonna keep dreaming for now so let's go
and set up Wichita now let's rotate you
this way to grow outwards I don't know
if it really matters entirely what
direction I choose like what's the side
the stations on think we're gonna do
this because I'm on another City again
yeah yeah yeah so it'll make it a little
easier to connect up over here the big
question will be do I want to continue
the double track I think for now I think
this double tracks just gonna end up in
Wichita as is we might have you know a
sort of a teen tour Chuck this section
somewhere later on for some stuff but
for now it's gonna be fine to just do a
little something like that to there and
go excellent and again we'll put we want
to supply tower along the way and if we
do this we also end up with some
signaling I guess I don't get to choose
now I can't rotate it I don't know what
really matters what side the actual
tower is on for when we expand the
double-tracking
I think it's gonna be okay so we've got
that oh and actually I think I said
already got the signals which is nice
and again we'll subdivide it a bit so
that we can run multiple trains along
the way without interrupting or
something like that because I can
actually foresee Wichita growing quite a
bit bigger here and now we don't have
enough money for a train okay unpause
fast go fast Express train we have a
stoker available that is less breakdown
chance which does sound fairly nice
maybe the the Kansas City to Wichita oh
I want the inventor because you get some
tech points from that but let's wait a
scooch here come on thirty thousand you
couldn't do it
oh you got a resupply over here I might
want to put some resupply points over
here so there's a little less waiting
right outside Kansas City because it's
kind of annoying to me and actually my
bond like a wee bit supper a line Kansas
City to Wichita go and add locomotive
and the NYC Mary awesome and you a beer
beer beer beer beer nice there we go oh
maybe that list didn't refresh likewise
I keep saying me just that one route
over there and yeah new trains always
start with like the negative money
because they haven't actually delivered
anything yet we've got some more
research available I can't unlock the P
R R which isn't faster it's got a lot
more power which is nice for some of the
slopes that we might wait on that I'm
actually tempted to just go and keep
getting the text that just makes our
trains slightly more productive and
efficient that's the cattle car I'm
gonna want that because I'm gonna be
delivering cattle to Wichita soon I
might just save up for the cattle car
speaking of saving up though how is this
inventor there you go and you're gonna
give me 80 Innovation points I mean it's
fairly expensive but you know tax pretty
good okay just want to save up for that
wave hi to each other and what are you
bringing you are bringing oh you do have
meat I guess there's been some some some
Overland transportation from here yeah
yeah you're transporting yourself over
Wichita so we've got some meat right
away being delivered to Kansas City
which is gonna satisfy more of its needs
over here warehouse overfilled on beer
we have too much beer all what a
terrible problem to have but that will
keep going unloaded to some of the
different towns that's gonna be okay
here sir Kansas City - Wichita it'll
probably fill up with a fair amount of
beer there might be passengers as well
opening serviced as the Salina a lot I'm
interested to see if the Salina new line
is also a passenger
and man are you gonna be delivering beer
to Samina
and yeah I might want to move these
service stations because they're
blocking sort of one of the bottlenecks
here and that might not be ideal you're
not bringing beer there now I guess you
do have a brewery and are you getting
brain yes you are getting Overground
overland brain probably from over here
or pot that's corn so probably from over
here a little bit is moving on its own
so you're not getting very deliveries
but I guess that's fine okay well I
guess this is a lovely place for us to
put in a cut Kansas City is growing with
the green little upward arrow Wichita is
growing Salina grew and now is shrinking
because it's not getting something that
wants and I think that's okay I don't
think we're gonna stress too much about
this Salina whatever I'll double-check
and pronounce the agent again
I'm sure I'm bothering someone we've got
plenty of time left now which is grand
well okay no we've got a year we still
have to reach sixty thousand a little
sooner than I thought
um and the priority for that is I think
I'm gonna get the logs going there
you also need milk you would also like
milk so if we can get and we might have
to take out a bond just to make it but I
think we're gonna be okay
if we can get the logs and the milk
getting over to Kansas City I think that
might be enough to push us over the edge
to sixty thousand but that will be that
will be the high priority push in fact
setting up the entire connection to
Salina may have slowed us down we may
have wanted to bypass that wasn't even
thinking of that Wichita is important
because we need the meat but what is
Salina give us right now nothing except
a little bit more passenger traffic and
not even that much Oh poop thanks for
watching folks see you next time
you